Readme update to reflect v3 scripts too (#208)
broadinstitute/gnomad_qc: gnomad_qc/v2/README.md

## Contents and ordering of scripts
The scripts below are run approximately in the order they are listed.

### Quality Control

> **load_data/**

Author: Ah, sorry, I didn't update anything for v2, just moved it and added v3. I can look into what each of these scripts do and add a description

* `finalize_sample_qc.py` — combine hard filter, platform inference, relatedness, ancestry inference, subpopulation inference, and TOPMED annotations into unified metadata tables for both exomes and genomes; define release sample set; collapse small population sizes into “other” category
* `create_fam.py` — depends on relatedness output (`joint_sample_qc.py`) and hard filter flags (`apply_hard_filters.py`); infer all complete trios from kinship coefficients and sex imputation annotations, including duplicates; select representative set of unique trios in call set; evaluate inferred trios by generating random trios and comparing Mendelian violations for random trios against inferred trios; generate final list of inferred trios by filtering out trios with Mendelian violation counts exceeding standard deviation cutoff
* `get_topmed_dups.py` — depends on frequency table annotations (`annotations/generate_frequency_data.py`); create table of high-quality autosomal SNPs shared across gnomAD and TOPMED along with allele count and singleton/doubleton/tripleton annotations (on variants and samples, respectively) for identifying samples present in both gnomAD and TOPMED

> **variant_qc/**

Author: Same comment as above, only added v3 scripts, I will work on adding

> **variant_qc/**

Author: I think I will keep the directory structure for v2 that was used at runtime, I don't think we need to rearrange at this point and if there are specific logs of commands used I think it is best to keep as is

* `create_ranked_scores.py` — create table with rank annotations based on random forest and/or VQSR variant quality scores, with SNPs and indels handled separately, along with optional additional rankings for more specific variant types (e.g., bi-allelic variants, singletons, bi-allelic singletons); bin the variants in the rank tables by all possible rank groupings and add variant annotations from external validation datasets; compute evaluation metrics for each bin for eventual comparison of variant filtering performance across multiple random forest models and VQSR
* `calculate_concordance.py` — compute concordance against truth data (NA12878 and synthetic diploid sample) and/or for duplicate samples across exomes and genomes; create a concordance table binned by rank (both absolute and relative) for a given data type (exomes/genomes), truth sample, and filtering model (e.g., VQSR, random forest) for the purposes of evaluating variant filtering models

### Making the Release

> **annotations/**

Author: same

**annotations/**
* `generate_qc_annotations.py` — compute and collate all variant- and allele-level annotations used for variant QC, including VEP; allele type; variant type; call stats (AC, AN, AF, homozygote count) for high-quality, release, and all samples; histograms of GQ, DP, and AB  metric distributions; and trio statistics (Mendelian errors and transmission disequilibrium test results)
* `generate_frequency_data.py` — compute frequencies of variants in gnomAD for various sample groupings (e.g., ancestry, sex, and subpopulation) and for downsampled sets; add filtering allele frequency annotations for ancestry sample groupings

> * `generate_ld_data.py` - generate an linkage disequilibrium (LD) pruned set of variants using Hail's [ld_prune](https://hail.is/docs/0.2/methods/genetics.html#hail.methods.ld_prune) method; calculate LD matrices by population using Hail's [ld_matrix](https://hail.is/docs/0.2/methods/genetics.html#hail.methods.ld_matrix) method; calculate LD scores for each population from the LD matrices; calculate cross-pop LD scores from the LD matricies; compute LD between SNVs and SVs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `generate_ld_data.py` - generate a linkage disequilibrium (LD) pruned set of variants using Hail's [ld_prune](https://hail.is/docs/0.2/methods/genetics.html#hail.methods.ld_prune) method; calculate LD matrices by population using Hail's [ld_matrix](https://hail.is/docs/0.2/methods/genetics.html#hail.methods.ld_matrix) method; calculate LD scores for each population from the LD matrices; calculate cross-pop LD scores from the LD matricies; compute LD between SNVs and SVs
```

**variant_qc/**
* `correct_fafs.py` — temporary fix to address 2.1 bug; filter allele frequency annotations so that populations in which AC=1 have filtering allele frequencies set to 0
* `make_var_annot_hists.py` — aggregate background distributions of specified variant QC metrics into histograms; first-pass run determines minimum and maximum values per metric; second-pass run aggregates QUAL metrics binned by allele frequency and aggregates other metrics over manually set bins/ranges, writes results out to json files (primarily for browser loading purposes)
* `prepare_data_release.py` — combine frequency, filtering alelle frequency, variant QC, VEP, dbSNP, and variant QC metric histogram annotations into unified table; add frequency annotations for each sample subset (e.g., controls, non-neuro, non-cancer, non-TOPMED); select and reformat release annotations for VCF export; create VCF header text; perform sanity check on release annotations

> * `exomes_genomes_coverage.py` needs a description and probably should be moved as well. It looks like it primarily creates coverage files for the flagship LOF paper, but maybe we also used these for the browser?

Reviewer: Needs an official description -- looks like this was just copied from my comments

Author: ugh, sorry, I copied what you wrote for each and changed, but missed this one.

Author: @nawatts is exomes_genomes_coverage.py used for the browser?

Reviewer 2: > is exomes_genomes_coverage.py used for the browser?

No. All the scripts used to load the public release files into the browser are in the gnomad-browser repository.

Author: Ok, so since all of the output from this script goes to (what was) `gs://gnomad-public/papers/2019-flagship-lof` it sounds like this isn't really part of the gnomAD QC production. @gtiao do you think I should just add a note (as well as to this README) to the top of this script that this was used in the flagship LOF paper with a link and not as part of production?

Reviewer: Yup, sounds good to me -- thanks for investigating, Julia!

### Others
**load_data/**
* `import_exomes_vcf_on_prem.py` - kept only for archival purposes. It has no practical utility and is outdated

**variant_qc/**

> * `select_qc_set.py` - kept only for archival purposes. This script was used for a one-off analysis to assess variant QC, but isn't used as part of gnomAD production

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `select_qc_set.py` - kept only for archival purposes. This script was used for a one-time analysis to assess variant QC, but isn't used as a regular part of gnomAD production
```
